todo: prettify this mess

Overview:
Cultivation is a technique the people of Elysia use to use and manipulate magic using their own bodies. With their blood as conduits and organs as catalysts, mages can use magic to cast complex spells or harness its medicinal properties to heal and fix, or even improve oneself.

Basic History:
Cultivation was popularized during the War Against the Divines as once-proud nations were defeated by the Ravernals and had to fight guerilla wars as small sects. As equipping and training legions of soldiers was no longer feasible, these sects instead pored their resources into supporting the cultivation of a few individuals (with support from the Divines) to create powerful mages.
Carrying out raids and partisan attacks against the Ravernal backline and industry, evem the relentless Ravernal tide had to relent, stopping completely at times to root out rebels and dissenters.
Cultivation was further popularized when the Heroes, summoned from other realties to defeat the Ravernals, spread their own knowledge of cultivation around the world as they traveled.
After the Banishing, the Divines united all the disparate sects into a single Confederation, a nation of holy peace and harmony. Under their divine rule, a new era of trade and prosperity began. Most importantly however, secrets and techniques of cultivation could be spread all around the continent, allowing mages to cultivate faster.

Comparison to Magic Formations:
The bodies of a cultivator can be seen as a magic formation, with sources, conduits and catalysts. However, the main difference is that cultivators can alter the flow of mana in their bodies, hence creating different 'magic formations' in their bodies.
    
    Sources:

        Skin: (absorption)
        The skin is able to break down manacules and repackage the mana in artificial manacules, which can be transported in the bloodstream and can be used directly by catalysts.
        Most cultivators (even proficient mages) use passive collection to passively absorb manacules from the surroundings, leveraging the fact that manacules will be attracted to mana expenditure events already occuring in their body, to generate atmospheric currents, funneling more mana towards the mage. This method is simple yet powerful, only limited by the magnitude of mana expenditure events in their body. 
        It also has significant ramp-up time, whereby the mage has to slowly increase the magnitude of mana expenditure event (slowly cast the spell) as manacule flow slowly increases.

        Skin: (Active Collection)
        Some cultivators choose to jumpstart mana collection by maintaining a fast mana absorption event. A simple purposeless manaic event (such as boiling water) is used to quickly attract a large amount of manacules for the main spell. This method is fast and is favoured by guards who need to unleash their power quickly in reaction to an assailant.
        However, this method requires the mage to master the art of conduit switching effectively.

        Batteries
        Some cultivators do away with the hassle of ramp-up completely and (though a variety of means) 'form' a reserve of mana within their bodies. This allows mages to cast big spells despite low mana production, using mana from batteries to make up the difference. 
        The disadvantage of this method is that unethical and dangerous methods must be used to create batteries as they cannot form naturally in human and elven bodies.

    Conduits:

        Blood:
        Some animals (including elves and certain humans) have blood that can carry artificial manacules. The manacules can bond to their blood cells readily and leave just as easily at their destination, making for a efficient method to transport mana though an animal's body.

        Manacule-carrying blood will flow from the skin, pumped through the heart and sent to wherever its needed around the body. Mages can temporarily divert blood to flow only to certain parts of the body thus only activating certain catalysts. 

        Risks (and Explosion Events):
        Great care must be taken to prevent manacules from the environment from entering the bloodstream as they will bond to blood cells in place of regular manacules and cannot be seperated. (think carbon monoxide poisoning)
        This often occurs when mages try to absorb more manacules than their skin can deal with, allowing natural manacules to seep though and enter the bloodstream. This is especially common with mages who use batteries as the skin cannot cope with big spikes in mana absorption rates.  

        If too many manacules are present in the bloodstream, the artifical manacules may react with each other (or even natural manacules permanently bonded to blood cells) creating a small explosion within the bloodstream.
        With large enough amounts of mana, a runaway chain reaction can occur where all the mana in the bloodstream reacts, causing a massive explosion, which is often fatal.

        Though the defining characteristic of cultivation is the ability to alter mana flow on the fly, many mages find it difficult to do that when manaic current is high (such as when they are in the middle of casting a spell.) 
        Attempting to do so without the proper technique may result in the aforementioned event (unintentional runaway reactions in your heart and blood). Manacule-laden blood cells, still being attracted to the mana expenditure event and carrying a large amount of kinetic energy could penetrate blood vessels and tissue, causing severe internal bleeding.

    Catalysts
        
        Organs:
        The mages' organs act as catalysts. When manacules are introduced to the organs, they will spend the mana to do work. Activating one or more organs allows a mage to cast a spell.

        By diverting the flow of manacule rich blood, mages can selectively activate catalysts to reduce mana wastage and prevent activating catalysts that will interfere with the spell. This technique is important for mages looking to learn more than one spell.

Development of Abilities and Assets:
Mages don't start off with powerful catalysts and strong blood vessels; they need to grow/upgrade/improve them first.
With few exceptions, only elves and part-elves are able to do this as their enlarged bodies and improved growth ability can support this.

    Basics:

    To upgrade an organ, a mage will consume herbs, pills and a large amount of food. After that, they will enter a state of meditation called hibernation where the conscious mind will rest and the body will be able to mold itself to become better.

    At more advanced stages of his career, a mage may need to undergo tempering. His organs must reach their full potential first before they can be upgraded. The mage will have to practise spells continously for a long period of time, placing stress on the catalysts and improving them naturally. The mage may also need to consume pills and herbs to maintain improvement.

    Mages will need to consume supplements to give their body the materials needed to maintain and improve their organs. This is done using pills and herbs.

    Mages will consume herbs which help stabilize the body and keep it at peak performance, allowing the mage to upgrade. They are absorbed naturally by the body.

    Pills used to be bowls of medicine made from boiling herbs together in a pot or tiny orbs of magic stuff cast in a massive cauldron which mages would then eat. However, this meant that the digestive system had to be developed beforehand 
    
    resulting in a complicated catch-22 situation where the digestive system has to be improved but the pill to upgrade the small intestine is too powerful to be absorbed by the very thing it is trying to upgrade, forcing all mages to undergo the slow and arduous process of tempering the digestive system (eating (and also shitting) a lot) which slowed down cultivation drastically.

    To solve this issue, the pills contents (and later on synthesised material) were directly injected into the bloodstream, bypassing the digestive system completely Some pills can even be injected inside the organ, maximizing growth potential. Statistics show that direct injection provides four times the results while using only one quarter of material.

    Injection can only be done with a licensed professional under a controlled and sanitised environment. Do not recreate at home. This is a work of fiction. Do not use the needles.

    Most pills also have side effects that must be neutralized. Most side effects are simple and easily overcome with herbs such as headaches or pains. Some may require injecting other pills to neutralize. Others require special techniques (such as cultivation of the body) to deal with the effects.

    After consuming the needed materials and tempering the body to its fullest potential, the mage can enter a state of unconscious meditation called hibernation. The body can work in growing and improving his organs instead of doing boring stuff like metabolizing and thinking. During hibernation, the body will break down certain parts of the body and regrow them using the materials provided to them by the pills.

    At critical stages of the hibernation process, the mage may need to wake up to supervise the upgrading process by diverting blood flow or changing posture.

    At all stages of the hibernation process, a licensed professional must carefully observe the mage and must take action when something goes wrong. He is also responsible for feeding him (nutritous protein paste though a tube)

    At all stages of the hibernation process, the mage must not be disturbed, either by outside or internal factors. As the mage is unconcious, he cannot do battle and defend himself and is thus vulnerable. Additionally, disturbing a mage in hibernation will cause problems with the hibernation process. The pains of illness or injury (or even side effects) may also disturb a mage of weaker    

    The Foundations:

        Upgrading the Skin:
        The skin is where the mage collects mana from the environment. As the only source of mana the mage has to perform his spells, the skin is one of the most important organs and is often prioritised for improvement.

        As the largest organ in the body, the skin is often the hardest to improve as the mage must spread out his efforts over a larger area instead of focusing on a single organ. However, as the only organ exposed to the outside, cream and medicinal herbs can be applied directly on the organ to speed up or even improve the process of upgrading the skin.

        Most mages start off simply by applying medicinal cream, consuming pills and a large amount of food before entering full hibernation.

        More accomplished mages remove the epidermis layer from their skin to allow it to absorb more cream. 