todo: prettify this mess

Overview:
Orthodox magic, an integral part of this world, adheres rigorously to a structured set of principles governing its existence, utilization, and limitations.
Magic often revolves around the capture, storage and usage of a powerful energy source, mana.
Mana is used in magic formations to do work.

Foundation:
    Properties of Mana:
    Mana has an exceedingly low, if not zero mass. However, it has a high energy state and can experience velocity and spin.
    Mana will be repelled from each other. This effect increases in magnitude at a exponential rate but is not significant at low and medium mana concentrations. This effect only becomes a concern in military and industrial applications such as shield generators and fast crystal growth.
    Mana will be attracted towards areas where mana is being spent (a manaic event). This effect increases in magnitude at a logarithmic rate. It is significant at low usage rates but does not increase much after that.
    The movement of mana is also affected by magnetic forces.

    Sources of Mana:
    Mana is produced at the edge of the world, (at the outermost edge of the world's gellar field.) where mana and its opposite counterpart, arcana, are produced. Under normal circumstances, mana and arcana will annhilate each other but the edge seperates the two energies, allowing mana to continue existing in reality while arcana can persist in the chaotic Void.
    However, mana is extremely unstable, so it must be 'contained.' Fortunately, the edge (the gellar field) creates a protective 'bubble' around the mana that prevents the mana from decomposing, forming a manacule.
    Manacules will gradually move towards the world of Elysia, as it is attracted to the various manaic events occuring there.

    Using Mana:
    Catalysts use mana in order to do work. However, the mana found in the surroundings are found in manacules and cannot be directly used as is. This is because the formation of the virtual conduits are random, disorderly and complicated.
    Typically, manacules are collected from the environment. They have to undergo a complicated process to remove the protective 'bubble'. 
    To prevent the mana from decomposing the instant it is removed from its manacule, it is kept inside an isolated environment, typically within a soild metal with a magnetic field where mana can flow. Alternatively, it can bond to metals in a process called enrichment.
    Catalysts are materials that will use mana to do work. They come in different shapes and sizes.
    The mana will be moved to a catalyst which converts mana into work.

    Magic formations:
    A simple magic formation consists of three components: source(s) of mana, conduits and catalyst(s). 
    These are arranged in a specific pattern for the efficient and safe flow of mana through conduits.
    Some catalysts also require special conditions to be met before they can function properly.
    Functional, efficient and safe magic formations are the backbone of any magic-based civilisation.


Magic Formations
Magic formations typically consist of three types of components: sources of mana, conduits (logistics) and catalysts.
They are the foundation to a modern, industrial magic civilisation, unlocking the secrets of mass production and automation.

    Sources:
    These components generate the nescessary mana neeeded the power the rest of the formation.
    There are two types of sources; batteries (storage) and collectors (production).
        Simple Manastones (Enriched Rocks):
        Under the right conditions, mana flowing in the earth can get stuck, creating large concentrations of manacules. Over time, this mana will bond to the surrounding rocks, enriching the rock and creating manastones.
        Simple Manastones are relatively abundant but are most common near the north and south pole, where the planet's magnetic field is strongest and the flow of manacules, greatest.
        However, the amount of mana within these rocks are low and the process to extract the mana is long and expensive, which makes simple manastones less desirable.

        Mana Crystals:
        Some plants and animals will store some of the mana in their bodies in a mana crystal, using it as a form of energy storage to survive Elysia's long and brutal winters. When they die, the crystals will remain in the ground.
        Essentially a supermassive manacule (manacule formations exist thoughout the crystal, creating a form of structure), mana crystals are simple to use and are thus the first choice for small and simple magic formations.
        Mana crystals are abundant, though rarer than Simple manastones. Mana crystals found in the frigid north have high mana capacity but release mana much slower, reflecting their original use for hibernation while mana crystals found under grasslands release mana faster at the cost of capacity as its owners spend their mana on chasing prey.

        Mana Batteries:
        Batteries are mana crystals created by civilisation instead of occuring naturally. 
        While most mana crystals will lose the ability to be recharged over the eons they spend underground, harvesting the mana crystals from freshly harvested animals will preserve this vaunted ability.
        Many farms breed apex predators at a industrial scale to produce mana batteries by the ton.

        Mana Capacitators:
        Purely artificial designs, mana capacitators are specialized crystals formed in a lab under carefully controlled conditions. They are capable of releasing their entire store of mana in mere moments, making them useful in large, complicated magic formations which require large but momentary mana thoughput such as guns.
        Mana capacitators are highly expensive due to the high cost of production and lack of supply.
        In place of capacitators, the much cheaper mana battery is used instead.

        Collectors:
        Collectors are specialized magic formations designed towards the collection of manacules from the surrounding environment to be used in the magic formation. They are often embedded in the main formation as runes (think def(): functions) but can exist as standalone magic formations to produce larger amounts of mana. 
        Some collectors spend a portion of the collected mana in purposeless manaic events (such as generating heat) to attract more manacules to the collector (or at least increase the flow of mana) thus increasing absorption rate. These are called active capture collectors.
        Too many collectors in one area can result in the depletion of manacules as they are absorbed faster than they can be replaced. This concern becomes especially relevant with large heavy-duty industrial collectors, which can deplete entire regions.

    Conduits (logistics of mana):
    Essential for delivering mana from the sources to the consumers. Ensures that mana does not decompose while in transit.
        Wires:
        By manipulating a magnetic field within a solid metal block, mana can flow through unimpeded.
        A rune may be inserted within the wire to create the magnetic field that causes mana flow.
        As wires have to be made of magnetic metals such as iron, they are cast as one solid block.

        Blood:
        Some animals (including elves and certain humans) have blood that can carry artificial manacules. The manacules can bond to their blood cells readily and leave just as easily at their destination, making for a efficient method to transport mana though an animal's body.
        However, great care must be taken to prevent manacules from the environment from entering the bloodstream as they will bond to blood cells in place of regular manacules and cannot be seperated.

        Virtualized Conduits:
        vConduits are best described as a form of battery, where the entire conduit holds a single unit of charge. Energy transfer is achieved by adding mana to the conduit at one end at discharging it at the other.
        Thoughput is dictated by rate of charging and discharging of the conduits.
        vConduits require mana to sustain itself or else it will decompose.

    Catalysts: (this is only a short list)
    Converts energy into work done. The centerpiece of the magic formation.
    Some catalysts are used in a support role.

        Examples of Catalysts:
        Tears:
        Named after its eyedrop-like shape, Tears 'grab' onto manacules and pull them towards itself. Pulling bonded manacules will cause the enriched matter to move in the same direction. Used in conjunction with the Longan.
        Tears differ in size, lift weight, consumption rate, etc.

        Longan:
        Momentarily forces manacules to bond to matter.
        Different longan variants enrich different types of matter. The blue longan enriches water while brown and red longans enriches earth and metal respectively.
        Longans differ in enrichment rate, mana consumption rate, etc.

        Filament:
        Produces heat. Emits light if enough heat is produced.

        Sensor Crystals:
        When the crystal absorbs light, it will vibrate.
        Different sensor variants absorb light at differing frequencies, from radio waves to UV light.

        Clarifying Lens:
        Fuses with other catalysts to give it a range aspect (allows a longan to enrich rocks farther away, rather than the rocks right next to it.)
        Many different variants exists, including pure runic crystals and even one made of plant fibre.

    Runes:
    A pre-built 'mini magic formation' formation module that can be installed inside a magic formation.
        Benefits of using Runes:
        Better Than The Alternative of building functionality from scratch.
        Optimized and Compact. Incremental changes to the design of runes over the decades have steadily improved their quality. 
        Easy Implementation.
        Disadvantages of using Runes:
        Pay the licensing fee.
        Pay the licensing fee.
        Spend a month looking for open-source alternatives (fail miserably)

        Examples:
        There's actually way more than this but are incredibly technical and boring.

        Collectors:
        Specialized magic formations for collecting mana from the environment, embedded in a larger formation to provide a supply of energy.

        Tractors:
        Specialized magic formations for picking up a ball of earth or water and moving it around. Most tractor runes have other runes embedded within them 
        It is rare to see a tractor rune mounted on a larger formation due to its complexity.

        Engines:
        Makes things spin.


Virtualized Magic Formations
A subset of the study of magic formations first pioneered by the renowned engineer Po Virt.
Magic formations but the components are massless, weightless and can move about freely.
This makes Virtualized magic formations expandable and portable, enabling new revolutionary technologies.

    Limitations
    Virtualized magic formations are essentially direct copies of their material relatives, with notable examples being batteries and conduits which work exactly the same for both versions.
    However, Virtualized Magic Formations have inherent limitations that must be overcome to attain this technology's full potential.

        Passive Drain
        All Virtual components require a small amount of mana to sustain themselves
        Limited Selection of Catalysts
        No Clarifying Lens: Can only interact with things next to (or within) the formation.
        No Collectors: All virtualized magic formations cannot absorb mana from the surroundings and are totally dependent on an outside source for energy.
        ...
        Complex Initalization Procedure
        Specialized runes called programmable weavers are used to build and maintain a virtualized magic formation. These runes are highly complex and unimaginably expensive.
    
    Examples:
    Erection Scaffold Manifold
    A complex piece of construction equipment used to construct large walls and buildings quickly by moving cement and earth into predetermined points on the ground.
    
    Jackhammer
    A complex piece of tunneling equipment used to loosen hard soil for easier removal by hammering it with thousands of earth-bending impacts.
    Virtualised magic formations are used to insert simple manacules into the earth while a larger formation overhead bonds naturally occuring manacules to the earth. The simple manacules are then allowed to collapse, causing the earth to rush inward as the manacules are attracted to the expenditure of mana, thus weakening the structure immensely. More advanced jackhammers introduce significantly more simple manacules to the earth to cause a repellant effect before forcing everything to get attracted by selectively decomposing certain manacules.
    This process can be repeated thousands of times to turn rock into sand, which can be carried away easily in buckets.

    Holographic Display Tank
    By suspending millions of remotely energized luminescent particles in a clear jelly-like fluid, pictures can be displayed. At each instant, the particles are arranged into groups and moved together from one point to another to form a moving image, achieved by automated tractor runes.

    Shield Generators


Arcana
Not much is known about this system of magic.
Arcane reactions rely on arcana, a substance created when mana is formed at the gellar field.
Arcana can only be found in the Void, the deep unknown outside reality.

The Ravernals:
Having been banished to the Void, the Ravernals somehow managed to change their bodies to suit the environment of the Void by sacrificing much of themselves and their orthodox magic cultivation. Having achieved this impossible endeavour, they mastered the use of arcana.
