todo: prettify this mess.

Plot Relevance:
Though all parts of the story (with the exception of the prologue) occur on Elysia, Terra, and the various events that occur on its surface will impact the plot in various ways.

Timeline (early alpha, unstable build, i am not liable for any damages, incidents or whatever legal things because this is pure cope and fiction, pls no arrest me)

This Timeline includes the following plot points:
    The fall of the Unipolar World Order
        USA falls from grace and loses its position as the premiere world power on the global stage. China, various European nations (EU) and even Iran will take over USA's place.
    The fall of the Rules-based World Order
        Nations can use a variety of methods to manipulate their opponent's population to act on their behalf. With such powerful tools of covert influence, even regional powers like Iran can become above the law.
    World War Three
        China and the USA eventually clashing. 
        The Second Cold War, with all the proxy battles are simply a lead-up to all of this. Yes, twenty years was indeed needed to ignite a war between to global powers.
    Singapore getting Nuked
        An Ohio-Class SSBN, despite being wounded, still presents a credible threat to ANY nuclear force. Hypersonics were used to deliver the deadly nuclear payload.
    Putin Getting What He Deserves (Optional)
        Just a personal one from the author. What's there to love about an ex-KGB agent and his oligarch cronies?

2022: Russian Invasion of Ukraine. 
    Despite initial setbacks, the Ukrainians successfully manage to push the Russians back and achieve a stalemate. Russia will devote immense resources to this war, pouring massive amounts of money and men in attempt after fruitless attempt to retake the initiative and end the war once and for all.
2023: Gaza Crisis and the Russian Realization
    the Middle East becomes unstable once again after a short period of relative peace. Hamas militants attack Isreal in an all-out war. Isreal responds with relentless force, blockading the Gaza Strip, bombing the militants and arresting droves of Palestinians. Each side trades accusations of warcrimes and human rights violations. In the wider region, insurrectionists and militants rise up in support for Hamas' fight against Isreal and the West, launching attacks against assets linked to Isreal, including cargo ships.
    The United States forms a coalition to protect global shipping near the Horn of Africa, shooting down missiles launched by militants.
    Later on, the US becomes frustrated at Isreal's heavy-handed approach to dealing with Hamas, complaining about excess casualties. When Isreal refused to back down and placed even more pressure on innocent Palestinians instead, the US withdraws much of its military aid for Isreal.
    Russia finally realises that it cannot gain anything from fighting in the war. Therefore, it opts to gain an advantage through alternative means.
    To undermine the credibility of its opponent, Russia leverages its army of bots and trolls, a sophisticated network of influencers and agents as well as allies all over the world to thoroughly saturate the internet with propaganda. Constant reminders of the West's previous follies fill social media while forums and blogs become indunated with praise for Putin. All over Youtube and Reddit, talking heads curse and swear at the incumbents, pointing at minor errors and mistakes to justify their shaky narratives while espousing the opposition for supporting vague and backward ideals. In the halls of the European Union, Russian supporters stall and veto every piece of legislature, slowing bureaucracy to a grinding halt. These varied and far reaching attacks successfully manipulate the US elections and sabotage the Eu from within.
2024: Election Year
    During the 2024 Elections, thanks to Russian propaganda, the opposition wins and a radical    president is elected. He immediately brings in a slew of isolationist policies, cutting America off from the outside world. He also withdraws all support for Isreal and Ukraine and reverses many of the efforts made by the previous administration. 
2025: The West has fallen, billions must isolate
    The US' economy is heavily reliant on exporting and importing goods from all around the world. The administration's isolationist policies have sabotaged the economy. Additionally, Chinese sanctions have targeted large American businesses, slashing their profits. Much like the UK during Brexit, the US has suffered immensely due to isolationism.
    Saudi Arabia finds its military aid reduced due to US policy of isolationism at an awful time. Militants in Yemen have spread their influence over the border and clashes have started in the south, which the corrupt and decadent military is unsuited to combat, despite military training by the US and superiority in equipment.
2026: Taiwan joins the Chinese as a special territory 
    In a historical referendum, Taiwan opts to enter the fold of the People's Republic, finally completing reunification. With this monumental task completed, China looks to the west, toward the untamed lands of Central Asia and to the south, toward the turbulent waters of the South China Sea.
    China asserts its political influence in South East Asia and Central Asia and finds allies in Myanmar, Laos and Australia while US influence wanes.
2027: TECH UPDATE
    Python 9.0 finally gets full multithreading support. Maximum three threads.
    Excel now supports HTML and CSS.
    A brief foray into popularizing Access fails.
    Over half of all websites still use PHP, though their owners think otherwise.
    Edge somehow gets popular.
2028: The American Miracle
    After years of economic downturn resulting from the incumbent's reckless policy decisions and misguided ideals, the youth of America rose up in huge demonstrations calling for the President's impeachment. This incredible display of resolve was supported by a few US multinationals whose businesses were threatened by current isolationist policies as well as European powers keen to see the US return to its previous position of power.
    For the 2028 election, both sides enact a brutal war of influence over the internet, each side spreading propaganda and spewing hatred. Violence erupts periodically in the streets as the youthful progressives and elderly conservatives clash. Through the rubble, a new President emerges, narrowly defeating his rival. 
    Implementing reforms to the education sector and fully socializing healthcare and dismantling the policy of isolationism (this was done when members of the House and Senate refused to participate in the government in a boycott/were refused entry to the government buildings by armed guards)(half of the Senate and House would have to be  reelected when a bill forcing politicians over the age of 70 do a (really hard) mental aptitude test (it was about complicated things like macroeconomics and being kind!!! we dont stand a chance!!! this isnt fair!!!))(34 bills were passed that day.) helped to fill up the US Treasury once again.
    Aid would once again flow to the US' allies all over the world, including Ukraine, which was still fighting against Russia. Fleets returned to their duties all across the Pacific and South East Asia while ambassadors traveled the global to resume trade and repair relations. Slowly, the wounds healed. 
2029: Cracks appear in Russia.
    Struck by disease and the ravages of age, Putin retreats from his office to nurse his illnesses. With their leader's death within sight, high ranking officials, influential oligarchs and mercenary leaders make preparations to take over the nation upon Putin's death. Some find support with China and Iran while others become proxies of the Europeans.
2030: Warlord Era in the Sandbox
    In the Middle East, The veneer of peace that defined the prior era has been stripped away. Now, militants and rebels take to war, fighting fiercely in a deadly struggle for dominance. Government forces and dictatorial cults fight in a hopeless battle to maintain the status quo while rebels and insurrectionists steadily grow in power and strength as they strive for legitamacy and strength. One by one, the nations of the MIddle East find themselves embroiled in civil war. Syria and Iraq, as always, have been in a state of anarchy while the Taliban's control in Afghanistan has collapsed fully. The giants of the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and Iran are struggling to fend off each others proxies in Yemen and Kurdistan respectively.  
2031: Daring Raid
    Sensing weakness within Russia, the Ukrainians launch a daring raid into Russia in the middle of winter, capturing a large city and several towns with little resistance. Putin, still bedridden from his illness, orders Russian nuclear forces to high alert and demands the Ukrainians withdraw immediately.
    As per protocol, upon reception of the presidential order nuclear siloes were armed, rocket forces mobilized and dispersed, and all submarines capable of battle sent out to the sea. All eyes are on Russia and Ukraine. Thousands of military personnel have also been withdrawn from the frontline and sent back home to defend the country proper.
    Only a month later, Vladimir Putin dies from excessive stress. Though a provisional government quickly takes control, disagreements between the oligarchs and politicians, as well as rumors that the government wants to increase the age of retirement above their expected lifespan brought the cou.try into total chaos. Rural provinces, having long given up Moscow's influence, send their letters of secession. In the streets of Moscow and St.Petersburg, riots have started. Anarchists and insurrectionists alike clash with government forces still loyal to the provisional government. The military has already splintered into multiple groups and mercenaries. 
    As the situation in Russia gets worse and worse, the eyes finally turn not to the bloodied streets of Moscow, but to the armed nuclear warheads dispersed all over Russia. With each one capable of leveling cities and destroying armies, the country quickly turns to chaos as every organization, group, power and mercenary fight to obtain their own.
2032: Special Operation Into Russia
    Amid the flood of refugees entering Europe and concerns about live Russian nuclear weapons, the UN finally sends a task force to stabilize the situation and recover the nuclear devices. Though the pacification and stabilization of the Western and Far East regions proceed relatively smoothly, the UN are unable to bring the freezing cold territories in Siberia and the Central Plains to peace. Attempts to occupy the zone was met with a series of 'dirty bombs' extremely destructive and toxic nuclear weapons fashioned out of warheads. With vast swathes of territory irradiated, the UN considers the situation untenable and orders a retreat. The US, China and various European nations instead opt to launch raids to locate and destroy the dirty bombs one by one.
    Provisional governments supported by the EU and USA are established in the west while a handful of states in the east align themselves with the Chinese. Towards Central Asia, Islamic militant groups and anarchist rebels have fortified themselves within the Urals and the Altai, arming themselves with a huge stock of Russian arms and armour, as well as whatever nukes the UN was unable to seize. A new age of Russian warlords have begun.
2033: Start of the Second Cold War
    Though both USA and China did work together to secure the Russian territories, misunderstandings between the two powers during the operation caused further division. A constant flow of hateful propaganda from both sides did nothing to reduce tensions.
2034: Extras
    Some guy named Sergey Taboritsky takes control of the small Komi-Zyrian Oblast. He is shot dead upon taking office.
    The new democratic republics around Moscow have often been called Reichskommisariat Moskowien in various memes. 
2035: Review of the World-At-Large
    Second Cold War: 
    Tensions between USA and China is high. The Chinese fleets stare down US carrier groups in the South China Sea and off Taiwan. Bath sides also support proxies to gain an advantage over each other. These proxies operate in the warlord regions in Russia, parts of Central Asia and all around the MIddle East.
    The Russian Warlord Regions: 
    Might makes Right is the motto of the land. Armed with Russian Army equipment, donated arms from their supporters and 3D-printed weapons, the armies that fight here are strong and formidable, despite the difficult climate. Due to the proliferation of nuclear warheads, the warlords rarely fight one another, ensuring a fragile but tangible peace.
    The Middle East:
    The geopolitical landscape of the Middle East is dynamic and constantly evolving. Alliances are formed and destroyed, rebellions are created and quelled, external influence waxes and wanes, territory shifts back and forth, with bouts of violence intersparsing brief periods of peace. With tensions still running hot, historical grievances unresolved, external intervention unfinished, it is unlikely the conflict here will ever end.
    There is a high demand for weapons here. Arms flow uninterrupted from the warlord regions up north, perpetuating the conflict.
2036: Nuclear Arms Race
    What started as a small build-up of nuclear weapons by the neutral Pakistan and India quickly devolved into a protracted arms race by nearly every nuclear-armed nation on the planet to build nukes in greater quantity and quality.
    When India started testing their submarine-launched ballistic missiles in response to Pakistani posturing, China's attention suddenly became focused on the increasing capabilities of its neighbour. Fearing that Indian nukes could be turned on them as easily as they were against Pakistan, China embarked on a comprehensive nuclearizaton program to equip its conventional forces, especially its navy, with nuclear delivery capabilities.
    Of course, the US interpreted this move as a hostile action and rushed to react. More funding was poured into revitalizing the nuclear triad, with increased production of new hypersonic missiles, preparation of various airbases in the Pacific to recieve nuclear-capable heavy stealth bombers and finally research into a new fleet of nuclear submarines.
2037: Concern over Biohazards
    A scandal revealed that the US was secretly developing bioweapons. Raids by US police uncovered the synthesis of deadly viruses and contagious bacteria. Some microbes were even bred to produce anthrax, a deadly poison that is fatal to the touch. However, leaked documents show that many parts of the illegal research was based of similar classified findings from China, leading many to believe that the Chinese did the illegal stuff first.
    Chinese officials vehemently deny this claim, asserting that the documents were fakes.
    Despite all the finger-pointing, it cannot be denied that the capability to produce deadly diseases has been attained by humanity. Man-made pandemics capable of wiping out nations have the potential to become real.
2038: Housing Prices Collapse (About Time!)
    After years of speculative and unsustainable increases in housing prices, the housing markets in both China and the USA collapse at the same time. Inital jubiliation about the decrease in property prices quickly fades as a recession sets in. 
    For China, the decades of relentless growth that many had taken for granted has finally been halted and is replaced by the looming shadow of recession. However, the government's refusal to act until the last moment caused the fall of many large corprations and cast doubt upon the ability of the Chinese economy to bounce back from the crisis.
    The Americans were no better either. Their flawed, stagnant economy was already struggling and the recent recession only served to send the economy on a downward death spiral. Total bankruptcy was only avoided with massive government bailouts.
    Though the worldwide recession caused people on both sides to suffer from rampant inflation and dissolution of their bank accounts, many still took the opportunity to fling mud and blame the other side for the crisis. 
2039: todo
2040: filler
2041: idea: pain and suffering!
2042: idea: GWOT 2.0 but it will be more successful this time because no nation-building (utter fail)
2043: todo
2044: Non-state actors release a deadly disease in the US, where is quickly spreads all over the busy metropolitan areas. After a short incubation period, the virus will quickly take over the affected individual, causing a slow, painful and ultimately fatal death. Understandably, many enraged Americans have viewed this as an attack on US soil itself, comparable to the tragic Pearl Harbour or 9/11 attacks.
Blinded by rage, most were quick to blame the Chinese government for this senseless tragedy for inital investigations revealed that the first carrier of the disease was a Chinese national orginating from China. Having concluded that the Chinese have orchestrated a deadly attack on the US, various military forces throughout the globe quickly mobilize and bring up arms against China.
Four Carrier Strike Groups sail into Chinese territorial waters in a show of force, ignoring orders to the contary while aircraft fully loaded with armanent buzz around the coasts of Asia.
2045: World War Three 
    Attempts to descalate the situation fail.
    American planes on patrol are plucked from the sky. 
    Huge salvoes of Chinese missiles streak toward US fleets.
    All squadrons scramble.
    Attack submarines strike from below.
    US fleets respond with cruise missiles.
    Chinese island outposts hammered by missile attacks.
    All at once, the Chinese missiles hit.
    The 4th Fleet is destroyed.
    The 2nd Fleet is annhilated.
    No survivors remain of the 5th Fleet, for a tactical nuke struck the USS Enterpise to the bow.
    The 9th Fleet escape only with a third of their missiles.
    All at once, the American missiles hit.
    The Peoples' North Sea Fleet is eliminated.
    The Peoples' South Sea Fleet is sunk.
    Stragglers from the East Sea Fleet are hunted down by fighter aircraft.
    Explosions fill the air at every Chinese city as American bombers do their work.
    The sandy beaches of California, Hawaii and Guam are disturbed by a flood of Chinese hypersonics.
    The keys are turned, nuclear missiles are launched.
    Ancient Minutemen IIIs join their younger hypersonic cousins as they travel to the Orient.
    Chinese nuclear submarines launch salvoes of nukes at US cities.
    India and Pakistan exchange nukes.
    The Vietnamese border is breached.
    The two Koreas slug it out with massed artillery and armour.
    The nukes detonate.
    The guns go silent.
    The redditors rage.
    All is quiet.

    "They will struggle for the sake of struggle. They will struggle, in other words, out of a certain boredom: for they cannot imagine living in a world without struggle."

    Quote from "The End of History" by Francis Fukuyama. 


<!-- improved format workspace here -->

<!-- todo: prettify this mess. -->
Introduction:
    This document details the events that happened on the planet of Earth before the nation-state of Singapore was transported to the world of Elysia. Such events will impact the plot in various ways such as national spirits, character personalities and internal politics.

Version: public-alpha-stable0 (.txt)
    This document has been written and formatted for public display and use.
    The contents of this document is in an early stage of development. All changes are not final and contributions are welcome.
    The contents of the document are internally consistent and mostly do not contradict each other.
    Document is formatted in .txt though markdown artifacts (comments) are present.

Plotpoints/Events:
    The fall of the Unipolar World Order
        USA falls from grace and loses its position as the premiere world power on the global stage. China, various European nations (EU) and even Iran will take over USA's place.
    The fall of the Rules-based World Order
        Nations can use a variety of methods to manipulate their opponent's population to act on their behalf. With such powerful tools of covert influence, even regional powers like Iran can become above the law.
    World War Three
        China and the USA eventually clashing. 
        The Second Cold War, with all the proxy battles are simply a lead-up to all of this. Yes, twenty years was indeed needed to ignite a war between to global powers.
    Singapore getting Nuked
        An Ohio-Class SSBN, despite being wounded, still presents a credible threat to ANY nuclear force. Hypersonics were used to deliver the deadly nuclear payload.
    Putin Getting What He Deserves (Optional)
        Just a personal one from the author. What's there to love about an ex-KGB agent and his oligarch cronies?

Timeline/Periods
    Russian Invasion of Ukraine.
        Justification:
            None needed, real-life event.
        Actions:
            The Russian federation launches an all-out invasion of Ukraine.
            Despite initial setbacks, the Ukrainians successfully manage to push the Russians back and achieve a stalemate.
            The frontline will not shift for years despite extensive efforts from both sides to break the stalemate and regain initiative.
        Effects:
            Russia's invasion was viewed as an imperialist act by other nations. Hence the Russian Federation was struck by international sanctions which impacted the Russian economy, the ruble and many governmrnt mechanisms. Only the quick and decisive actions of treasury officials stalled the Ruble's downward spiral, preventing a major recession.
            Russia devotes a large amount of resources to fighting in the war. Most of it pre-war ammunition and reserve equipment are spent, forcing Russia to enter a war economy state and mass-produce things for the military. This has allowed Russia to maintain the initiative on the battleground. However, pouring money and state resources into the arms industry has left the civilian sectors floundering.
            Russia will look towards its allies for assistance. Iran offers large amounts of kamikaze drones used to great effect in Ukraine. It is also theorized that Iran influenced its proxy, Hamas, to invade Israel to draw Western attention away from Ukraine.
            North Korea trades technology for vast amounts of ammunition. Despite widespread complaints that Korean shells are of lackluster quality, they are still instrumental in keeping Russian stockpiles filled and maintaining artillery fire superiority.
            China offers to trade with Russia and even offers to help bypass sanctions by acting as an intermediary. Knowing that Russia has no one else to trade its vast energy and agriculture exports to, China demands deep discounts and steep markups from its ally.
            Thanks to aid from the West, Ukraine would be able to defend its territory from the numerically superior West and sustain its floundering economy.

    Gaza Crisis
        Justification:
            None needed, real-life event.
        Actions:
            The Hamas militants attack Israeli-controlled territory, taking hostages and killing civilians. In response, the Israelis strike back with overwhelming force, deploying troops into the Gaza Strip and enforcing a blockade.
        Effects:
            Israel's aggressive actions have led to widespread civilian casualties, destruction of property and civil unrest. Thus Israel's actions have seen heavy opposition from around the world with its longstanding ally the US even threatening to cut aid in the first months of the event. In the face of such pushback from the global community, Israel eventually accepts a ceasefire soon after the conflict begins.
            Spurred on by Hamas' decisive actions and the lack of pushback from the global community, other militant groups around the Middle East come out of the woodwork. The Houthis, supported by regional power Iran, hog the spotlight as they hurl missiles at global shipping, provoking a military response from the US.
    
    Russian Disinfomation Campaign
        Justification:
            Russia finally understands that overt actions such as invading a neighbour and cutting gas supplies are unlikely to benefit itself.
            Russia instead increasingly relies on its international propaganda apparatus to discredit and weaken its opponent from the inside, using their own people against themselves.
        Actions:
            Russia leverages its army of bots and trolls, a sophisticated network of influencers and agents as well as allies all over the world to thoroughly saturate the internet with propaganda. Constant reminders of the West's previous follies fill social media while forums and blogs become indunated with praise for Putin. All over Youtube and Reddit, talking heads curse and swear at the incumbents, pointing at minor errors and mistakes to justify their shaky narratives while espousing the opposition for supporting vague and backward ideals. In the halls of the European Union, Russian supporters stall and veto every piece of legislature, slowing bureaucracy to a grinding halt. These varied and far reaching attacks successfully manipulate the US elections and sabotage the EU from within.
            Division and strife now plague the West.
        Effects:
            The West, particularly the US and EU, the primary rivals of Russia are severely weakened and divided. Its citizens quarrel and riot while their leaders struggle to pass policies without erupting into fights.
            Some security agencies in Western countries were alarmed by Russian manipulations and devise their own countermeasures.

    Isolationism and Amerixit (2024, right after the elections conclude.)
        Justification:
            For the 2024 Elections, Russian propaganda boosts a presidential candidate with some radical ideas. He calls for increased federal control over corporations actions outside the US as well as a policy of deregulation within the country. He also claims to oppose the 'globalists' influence and vows to bring jobs back to the US through a policy of isolationism.
            His straightforward promises hooked Americans all over the country and, with some nudging from the internet, the people are convinced.
            On the other hand, the incumbent struggles to find support. Despite offering more than his opponent, a lack of viewership and constant attacks from internet trolls and discreditors weaken the incumbent's stand.
        Action:
            The radical candidate wins by a large margin, not only seizing the presidency, but also securing the most of the crucial House and Senate. This allows laws to be passed with ease.
            Without much pushback, a series of policies were passed in rapid succession to reduce foreign dependence. Corparations were forced to reshore their assets and manufacturing was moved back. Tariffs were raised and protectionist laws were imposed. With the foreigners barred, millions of new jobs were created.
        Effects:
            The negative effects of the policy of isolationism are:
                Catastrophic Disruption of Supply Chain
                Without easy access to the global market, many corparations are unable to source components for their products, resulting in factory stoppages and goods shortages. Though this problem would be mitigated when new factories opened in the US, supply chain disruptions impacted the economy severely, reducing production.
                Impact on Investments
                Foreign direct investment (FDI) decreases as international investors become hesitant to commit capital in an environment of economic uncertainty. This could resulted in a reduction of funding for projects, innovation, and job creation within the US, causing economic stagnation.
                Foreign Competition
                Though companies managed to adapt to the policy of isolationism by bringing back all their industry and workers to America, the cost of doing this was heavily felt. This meant that many companies had to increase the price of their products, making them less competitive than their foreign counterparts.
            This caused the US economy to enter a deep recession. Think Brexit but stupider.
            Around the globe, US decoupling from the global economy sent supply chains into turmoil, causing severe economic problems for many nations as their exports crumbled and US companies left in droves. China was also affected by the US policy of isolationism as it lost a crucial export partner and investment. 
<!-- this is stupid, this is really really stupid. We all know that mncs will just use shell companies to bypass the tariffs (or some bullcrap method), but this makes more sense somehow. replace it the moment it makes the brain hurt more than it does now. -->    
            Without trade, the US lost much of its influence around the world. Countries in Africa and South America left the US sphere of influence completely to join the Chinese bloc, South East Asian nations drifted away while the Europeans became more independent. China and even Iran capitalized on this by going on an international exposition campaign, making new friends, gaining new allies and bringing more nations into their sphere of influence.
            Military aid to various US allies were reduced or cut completely. Ukraine and Israel stopped recieving weapons and money completely while the US military withdrew forces from East Asia and Saudi Arabia.
            Though Ukraine managed to cope with the lack of aid with a combination of European support and smart internal policy, Saudi Arabia struggles to mainstain control over its more problematic areas as its bloated and corrupt US-trained military is unable to combat rebel militants.
            Japan and South Korea respond to the US withdrawal with an increase in military spending to bolster their forces against increasingly daring Chinese forces. The loss of US influence in Taiwan causes it to drift completely into Chinese influence.

    Reunification (late 2027)
        Justification
            When US political and economic influence in Taiwan disappeared due to US policy of isolationism, the Chinese were able to gain the support of the Taiwanese people.
        Action
            The Chinese government offered a good reunification deal to the Taiwanese. Without US influence, the politicans found little pushback when campaigning for reunification.
            In a historical moment, the Taiwan people vote to join the People's Republic in a democratic referendum as a special territory, finally completing the Chinese dream of reunification.
        Effect
            With this success, China is spurred on to expand its influence not only in East and South East Asia, but also in Russia's own backyard, Central Asia.
            Economic investment into Myanmar and Laos ailing economies, which was previously hit hard due to the US policy of isolationism earns China their friendship.
            Like dominoes, nations previously under US influence enter China's sphere of influence instead, spurred in by new investment. 

    The DC Massacre (2026-2027)
        Justification
            The radical president's policy of isolationism brought the US economy to its knees, causing inflation to skyrocket, standards of living to plummet, severe goods shortages and a major recession.
            Even with propaganda outlets spewing propaganda all over the internet, it was clear to everyone that the current president was unsuitable to lead the country. Even in 2025, even though the policy of isolation had yet to take effect (everyone was given one year to adapt to the new policy.) there were already growing calls for his impeachment.
        Action
            An enraged mob flooded Washington DC, filled the streets with flags and umbrellas (it was raining) and occupied the White House and Capitol building, looting and burning as they went. Another large group consisting of hardcore loyalists and counter-protesters appeared shortly after, clashing with the mob in a massive street fight, laying waste to the city as they fought. Leveraging on the uncoordinated nature of the mob, the loyalists could force their way to the gates of the White House despite the mob's bigger numbers. However, the group there was far more coordinated than the mob in the streets and could keep them out of the building.
            During the battle, the fire prevention system was heavily damaged and/or sabotaged which allowed a deadly blaze to spread all over the building. The people in the building quickly noticed the fire and rushed to escape but found the main entrances blocked by their own barricades and a mob of angry loyalists. With a raging fire on one side and a raging mob on the other, the occupiers were trapped in the burning building and slowly burnt to death.
            When the people heard that the loyalists had trapped a group of their fellow men in a burning building to die, they became frenzied. They brought out handguns and rifles and occupied the cities, shooting everyone suspected to be a loyalist. In Washington, the rioters got their hands on automatic firearms and battled in the streets, turning the city into a warzone.
            Over the course of the next several days, the US military had to be sent into the war-torn cities of America to put down the lynch mobs and control the angry population, slowly restoring peace and order.
            As a result of this event the current president was impeached and a new President emerges from the rubble.
        Effects
            The new President immediately declares martial law and has the military take control of the cities to prevent further fighting. A curfew is declared and a nationwide campaign of arrests are made. Though a few armed groups try to resist, they are quickly located and ruthlessly eliminated.

    An American Miracle (2027-2032)
<!-- not satisfied with this but will work for now. -->
        Actions
            The new president implements a new five-year-plan to bring the US economy out from its state of turmoil. He also reverses many of the isolationist policies pushed by his predecessor. He also goes on an international foreign relations campaign to restablish ties and bring back foreign investment into America. Finally, he passes laws to regulate the internet and reduce divisive conflict as well as creating a new government agency to counter Russian propaganda and extremist disinformation.
        Effects
            Miraculously, the US economy manages to rebound, returning to its original state by 2032.
            The new government agency soon uses their newfound power to spread American ideals all over the internet by way of trolls and botnets similar to the Russian propaganda apparatus.
        
    Middle East Chaos (2026-)
<!-- not much happens here so no need for jae -->
        In the Middle East, The veneer of peace that defined the prior era has been stripped away. Now, militants and rebels take to war, fighting fiercely in a deadly struggle for dominance. Government forces and dictatorial cults fight in a hopeless battle to maintain the status quo while rebels and insurrectionists steadily grow in power and strength as they strive for legitamacy and strength. One by one, the nations of the MIddle East find themselves embroiled in civil war. Syria and Iraq, as always, have been in a state of anarchy while the Taliban's control in Afghanistan has collapsed fully. The giants of the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and Iran are struggling to fend off each others proxies in Yemen and Kurdistan respectively.
    
    The Sick Man of Europe (2029-2031)
        State of Russia:
            Struck by disease and the ravages of age, Putin retreats from his office to nurse his illnesses. With their leader's death within sight, high ranking officials, influential oligarchs and mercenary leaders make preparations to take over the nation upon Putin's death. Some find support with China and Iran while others become proxies of the Europeans.
            The war has also taken its toll on the Russian economy. When the factories switched to producing military materiel, less consumer goods were produced, causing a decrease in food supply. Many factories also relied on Western components for their machines, which were hard to substitute. Though extensive efforts were made by the government to indigenise local industries, critical machines and infrastructure began breaking down from lack of maintainance, causing stoppages in factories. Coupled with the government diverting replacement parts to military producers instead of civilian factories, supply of essential goods decreased an prices skyrocketed.
            Though Russia was able to get goods and substitute machine parts from its ally China, it was often sold at a huge markup by companies looking to make a quick buck. Local regions seeking better prices began independently negotiating trades with other powers such as Iran, China and even the Europeans. The Western powers also approached disgruntled governors, ambitious oligarchs and opposition leaders in hiding, pulling them from the Putin's influence.
    
    Warlord Era (2032-)
        Justifications
            see The Sick Man of Europe
        Actions
            Sensing weakness within Russia, the Ukrainians launch a daring raid into Russia in the middle of winter, capturing a large city and several towns with little resistance. Putin, still bedridden from his illness, orders Russian nuclear forces to high alert and demands the Ukrainians withdraw immediately.
            As per protocol, upon reception of the presidential order nuclear siloes were armed, rocket forces mobilized and dispersed, and all submarines capable of battle sent out to the sea. All eyes are on Russia and Ukraine. Thousands of military personnel have also been withdrawn from the frontline and sent back home to defend the country proper.
            Only a month later, Vladimir Putin dies from excessive stress, quickly being replaced by an acting government. However, the temporary administration is unpopular among the oligarchs and its members are quickly replaced by their selections. However, things turn ugly quickly when the oligarchs disagree amongst themselves.
            Soon, disagreements turn into skirmishes, which turn into full-blown war, complete with mercenaries fighting in the streets. The Russian Army is recalled from the front to restore order, but it is revealed that their commanders were controlled by the oligarchs. Civil war erupts in Russia, with each side fighting for their own selfish desires.
        Effects
            With the breakdown of order, the looting and burning begun. Many convict-turned-conscripts in the Russian Army escaped in the confusion of redeploying from the frontlines. Some of them stole from unguarded homes and stores while others set fire to buildings. Cults and gangs were free to rear their ugly heads, taking over abandoned army bases and stealing the weapons inside, which they use to carve territory for themselves. 
            Eventually, lines of control start to form between the oligarch-warlords' mercenary forces. As each side consolidates their gains, it becomes harder to take territory without suffering heavy casualties. As each sides thinks of ways to overpower the other, the eyes finally turn not to the bloodied streets of Moscow, but to the armed nuclear warheads dispersed all over Russia. With each one capable of leveling cities and destroying armies, everyone realises the importance of obtaining one.
            Thanks to Putin's order, the Russian nuclear forces were dispersed all over the country and at high readiness. When the country fell to anarchy, their operators did dismantle and sabotage the delicate warheads in an effort to prevent them from falling into the wrong hands. However, the sabotaged warheads could easily be repurposed into a 'dirty bomb' capable of irradiating cities. 
    
    Special Military Operation into Russia (autumn 2032)
        Justification
            Amid the flood of refugees entering Europe and concerns about live Russian nuclear weapons, the UN finally sends a task force to stabilize the situation and recover the nuclear devices.
            Maintain Nuclear non-proliferation at all cost.
        Action
            A multinational task force of Chinese, European, Central Asian and US forces entered Russia and eliminated the warlords and their mercenary forces. The pacification and stabilization of the Western and Far East regions proceed relatively smoothly, thanks in part due to already-present allies there and proximity to allied countries.
            However, when the UN forces pushed deeper into Russia, a 'dirty bomb' was detonated as a warning to the UN forces not to advance any further. Knowing that the Russian warlord oligarchs now had access to Russian nuclear weapons, the UN had no choice but to retreat and avoid provoking the nuclear-armed states.
        Effects
            The Russian warlords have inherited much of the Russian Federation's conventional arms and a sizable fraction of its nuclear arsenal. They sit in the middle of the oil and resource rich Siberia, which is easily defended due to its challenging weather and difficult terrain. However, the warlords cannot fully harness this capablility as they are still divided and their economies are small.
            The warlords soon align themselves with other nations such as China and the Europeans to bolster their weakened economy and reenter the global stage as a sovereign nation, eventually ceding their nukes for a peaceful existance (in 2040.)
            Other warlords chose a more adventurous option instead, aligning with rogue nations like Iran and the islamic militants in the Middle East. In exchange for a supply of Russian arms, armour and advanced technology, the warlord states top leadership can enjoy a life of luxury provided by Iran as well as a guarantee of a safe haven if anything goes wrong.
            With this arrangement, Russian arms flow freely from the frigid north to the arid deserts of the Middle East, greatly strengthening the militants there while Iran enriches itself with valuable Russian technology. It is also rumored that nuclear weapons were moved to the Middle East, which would spell disaster if true. Imagine a nuclear-armed ISIS!
            The Special Military Operation was expected by many observers to bring the powers of the world together, mending grudges and making bonds, to prove to the world that the US and China had settled their differences and were ready to coexist. However, the opposite happened.
            Initially, the US demanded to lead the operation and have the multinational task force under its command. China disputed this, stating that indepedence would be more beneficial to the operation. Both sides eventually relented and entereed the operation under three seperate command groups, one under the US near Europe, an East Asian front led by China and a smaller Central Asian command group with Kazakhstan at the helm. This arrangement did not come by without much quarreling between the two powers and significant delays, allowing the Russians to stabilize and consolidate their positions.
            The UN task force entered the operation with the naive thought that it would be a quick and easy operation; simply show them the might of the united international community and liaise with the shocked oligarchs to secure peace. This sentiment did not persist after the first few days however when the population fought back bitterly. Cracks began to form between the various militaries as they struggled to work together to pacify the region. The US military was frustrated by Chinese refusal to provide intelligence and the Chinese were likewise angry about the sluggishness of US air support, which they claim indirectly caused the death of many servicemen.
            A dilipated MiG, a relic from the Cold War lifted off from a cratered Russian highway. Under its belly held a large and onimous object, a nuclear 'dirty bomb'! Chinese intelligence assets were able to track the bomb's movement from a deep underground base to the makeshift airstrip and to the sky and thus warned their own troops of the incoming warhead. However, this vital information did not make its way to the Americans early enough, which caused the deaths of hundreds of US and UN military servicemen when the bomb struck their position. When the US heard that China had intelligence that the nuke was coming towards them but did not issue a warning, everyone assumed the worst. This marked the end of US-Chinese cooperation in the operation. The special military operation in Russia would end soon after to avoid provoking the new nuclear-armed powers.